now let's turn to the situation in the
Middle East and officials in Gaza have
accused Israeli forces of shooting at a
crowd of Palestinians waiting for Aid in
Gaza City saying that at least 20 people
have been killed the Hamas ran Health
Ministry says more than 150 others were
injured the Israeli military says it did
not open fire meanwhile a jetti has been
built on the Gaza Coastline which is
thought would be used to offload aid
from the Open Arms charity ship
this satellite image was taken on
Tuesday you can see there the Earth
being pwed out over the beach and this
satellite image was taken a few hours
later on the same day you can see the
jetty extending out into the sea with
what appears to be a road leading
towards it when the Open Arms ship does
eventually dock it will start to
distribute a cargo of 200 tons of food
and Medical Aid further shipments are
expected in the coming weeks here you
can see where W houses in Cyprus with
Aid waiting to be loaded well we can
speak now to our correspondent Anna
Foster who's in
Jerusalem morning Katherine I'm in in
East Jerusalem this morning outside
Damascus gate where worshippers are
starting to arrive already for Friday
prayers the first Friday prayers of
Ramadan it's traditionally been a time
of attenion there have been violent
clashes here before what's interesting
this morning is the Israeli security
forces have a very
wide Cordon set up in fact when you look
at the worshippers who are arriving many
of them have come from checkpoints
through the occupied West Bank this
morning um you won't see anybody here
over the age of 10 or under the age of
50 10 to 50 year olds have been excluded
from worshiping here today as uh
attempts are made to try and keep this
peaceful of course it's it's happening
against the backdrop of the war in Gaza
uh you mentioned uh the incident there
that was uh uh last night at the the
Kuwait roundabout in Gaza now the Hamas
run Health Ministry said that 20 people
had been killed and more than 150 had
been injured they said it was people
Sheltering potentially in a a container
waiting for a delivery of Aid uh they
were questioning whether uh an air
strike for example might have uh have
hit the container now Israel very
quickly denied that they said that
reports that this was uh an IDF attack
were false and they said that they would
be carrying out a thorough assessment of
the situation
um of course all of this as we were
saying happens against the backdrop of
uh Ramadan of prayers and of of tension
in this area in particular and I was
speaking to uh to an Imam at the mosque
in Bethlehem Imam Abed al- maid ATA and
he just explained a little more about
why we see these tensions here during
Friday prayers at
Ramadan I was IM in ALA MOS and I was I
was arrested from there several times
and I am prevented from going there so
the walls to view the checkpoints to
view the soldiers to you you need
special permission special be Mission
only from the Israeli security the is
Israeli security doesn't give
anyone now of course there are still
calls for a humanitarian ceasefire to
take place Hamas said last night that it
had put forward uh what it called uh a
vision for an agreement that it have put
to uh to peace talk mediators in at uh
they said that they were still pushing
for things like Palestinians to be able
to return to their homes for a full
withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza
uh Israel for its part said that Hamas
was still making what it called
unrealistic demands and that was echoed
by the Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu when he met families of people
who were still being held hostage last
night and he said that work was
continuing still to try and secure their
release of course one of the reasons
that this humanitarian ceasefire is
being pushed for is that the aid
situation Gaza is so so desperate at the
moment now world leaders humanitarian
groups have made it very clear that more
aid needs to reach Gaza by Road there is
no substitute for that we've seen air
drops and we've also seen um as you were
saying Katherine this this boat with 200
tons of Aid aboard important of course
but nowhere near the scale that aid
needs to be uh received at that's now
visible off the coast of Gaza it's been
sailing from Cypress over the last few
days it'll be the first aid to be
received by sea during this conflict so
we'll continue to watch that as well
over the next few hours here on BBC News
so stay with us back to you Catherine
Anna thank you very much that's the
BBC's Ana Foster there in Jerusalem